# Pexpress PHP Library

Pexpress is a lightweight PHP library for building RESTful APIs with ease. It provides a simple and intuitive interface for defining routes and handling HTTP requests. This README will guide you through the process of installing and using the Pexpress library effectively.

## Table of Contents

- Installation
- Usage
  - Initializing the App
  - Defining Routes
  - Listening to Requests
- Examples
- Contributing
- License

## Installation

To use Pexpress in your PHP project, you need to follow these steps:

1. Update your `composer.json` file to include the library as a dependency:

```json
   "require": {
   "henacodes/pexpress": "dev-master"
   }
```

2. Run the following command to install the library and its dependencies:

   composer install

## Usage

### Initializing the App

To get started with Pexpress, you need to initialize the App class. This class will be responsible for handling incoming requests and routing them to the appropriate handlers.

In your PHP file (index.php or any other file), include the autoload file generated by Composer:

```php
require_once 'vendor/autoload.php';
```

Next, import the App namespace:

```php
use Henacodes\Pexpress\App;
```

Now, you can initialize the App class:

```php
$app = new App();
```

### Defining Routes

Pexpress allows you to define routes using different HTTP methods such as GET, POST, PUT, and PATCH. To define a route, you need to call the corresponding method on the $app instance and provide a callback function that will handle the request.

Here's an example of defining a GET route:

```php
$app->get("/users/:id", function ($req, $res, $next) {
$res->json(["message" => "Hello"]);
});
```

You can define routes for other HTTP methods in a similar manner (post, put, patch).

### Listening to Requests

After defining your routes, you need to start listening for incoming requests. To do this, simply call the listen method on the $app instance:

$app->listen();

This will start the server and listen for incoming requests on the specified port (usually port 8000).

### MIddlewares

You can add as many middlewares as possible.
Here is an example

```php
$middleware_one = function($request, $response, $next){
    if (your_logic_here){
        // if its true , preceed to the next miiddleware
        $next()
    } else {
        // abort the process and response with an error response
        res.status(400)
        res.json({ error:"Bad request" })
    }
}

$middleware_two = function($request, $response, $next){
    // your second middleware
}


$app->get("/posts", $middleware_one, $middleware_two)
```

## Examples

For more examples and usage details, please refer to the examples directory in this repository.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have any improvements or new features to add, please create a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
